.TH GWENVIEW 1 "January 2005" "K Desktop Environment" "Image viewer for KDE"
.SH NAME
Gwenview \- An image viewer for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gwenview
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfile or folder\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gwenview is an image viewer for KDE. It features a folder tree window and a file list window to provide easy navigation of your file hierarchy. Gwenview uses docked windows, so you can alter its layout any way you wish. You can also browse your images in full\-screen mode, or embedded within Konqueror using the Gwenview Image Browser View and Kpart.
.PP
Image loading is handled by the Qt library, so Gwenview supports all image formats your Qt installation supports. Gwenview correctly displays images with an alpha channel.
.PP
Gwenview supports the displaying and editing of EXIF comments, if the necessary JPEG kfile\-plugin is installed. This comes as part of the kdegraphics package. Lossless JPEG transforms are also supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Arguments:
.TP
.B file or folder
An initial image file, or a folder containing images.
.SS Gwenview options:
.TP
.B  \-f
Start in Full Screen mode.
.SS Generic options:
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show help about options.
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-qt
Show Qt specific options.
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific options.
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-all
Show all options.
.TP
.B  \-\-author
Show author information.
.TP
.B \-v\fR, \fB\-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B  \-\-license
Show license information.
.TP
.B  \-\-
End of options.
.SS Qt options:
.TP
.B  \-\-display \fIdisplayname\fR
Use the X\-server display 'displayname'.
.TP
.B  \-\-session \fIsessionId\fR
Restore the application for the given 'sessionId'.
.TP
.B  \-\-cmap
Causes the application to install a private color
map on an 8\-bit display.
.TP
.B  \-\-ncols \fIcount\fR
Limits the number of colors allocated in the color
cube on an 8\-bit display, if the application is
using the QApplication::ManyColor color
specification.
.TP
.B  \-\-nograb
Tells Qt to never grab the mouse or the keyboard.
.TP
.B  \-\-dograb
Running under a debugger can cause an implicit
\-nograb, use \-dograb to override.
.TP
.B  \-\-sync
Switches to synchronous mode for debugging.
.TP
.B \-\-fn\fR, \fB\-\-font \fIfontname\fR
Defines the application font.
.TP
.B \-\-bg\fR, \fB\-\-background \fIcolor\fR
Sets the default background color and an
application palette (light and dark shades are
calculated).
.TP
.B \-\-fg\fR, \fB\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fR
Sets the default foreground color.
.TP
.B \-\-btn\fR, \fB\-\-button \fIcolor\fR
Sets the default button color.
.TP
.B  \-\-name \fIname\fR
Sets the application name.
.TP
.B  \-\-title \fItitle\fR
Sets the application title (caption).
.TP
.B  \-\-visual TrueColor
Forces the application to use a TrueColor visual on
an 8\-bit display.
.TP
.B  \-\-inputstyle \fIinputstyle\fR
Sets XIM (X Input Method) input style. Possible
values are onthespot, overthespot, offthespot and
root.
.TP
.B  \-\-im \fIXIM server\fR
Set XIM server.
.TP
.B  \-\-noxim
Disable XIM.
.TP
.B  \-\-reverse
Mirrors the whole layout of widgets.
.SS KDE options:
.TP
.B  \-\-caption \fIcaption\fR
Use 'caption' as name in the titlebar.
.TP
.B  \-\-icon \fIicon\fR
Use 'icon' as the application icon.
.TP
.B  \-\-miniicon \fIicon\fR
Use 'icon' as the icon in the titlebar.
.TP
.B  \-\-config \fIfilename\fR
Use alternative configuration file.
.TP
.B  \-\-dcopserver \fIserver\fR
Use the DCOP Server specified by 'server'.
.TP
.B  \-\-nocrashhandler
Disable crash handler, to get core dumps.
.TP
.B  \-\-waitforwm
Waits for a WM_NET compatible windowmanager.
.TP
.B  \-\-style \fIstyle\fR
Sets the application GUI style.
.TP
.B  \-\-geometry \fIgeometry\fR
Sets the client geometry of the main widget.
.SH INTERFACE
.SS Browse and View modes
By default, Gwenview opens in Browse mode, with the docked windows (showing
directory structure and contents) displayed. Starting Gwenview with a directory
as an argument also begins in Browse mode. Starting with an image as an argument,
however, opens Gwenview in View mode, with these docked windows hidden to give
full space to the image itself.
.PP
Once Gwenview is started, the user can toggle between Browse and View modes by
clicking the Browse button on the Main Toolbar. The same option can be found
in the View menu. Ctrl-Return will toggle these modes as well.
.PP
Whereas normally, in Browse mode, single-clicking on an image thumbnail or
listing is sufficient for Gwenview to display it, users also have the option of
double-clicking, which displays the image and switches Gwenview to View mode.
.SS Docked windows
The Gwenview interface is composed of a number of smaller docked windows.
Manipulating these windows can be difficult at first. To focus a particular
window in the Gwenview interface, simply click within it.
.PP
Each docked window has a small grip bar along the top, with a dock/undock button
resembling an arrow at its right end, as well as a close button resembling the
letter X.
.PP
Clicking the close button on a docked window will remove it from the interface.
To bring back a window, select it from the Window menu.
.PP
To resize docked windows, click on the border between the windows, and drag.
To re-arrange the docked windows, click on a window's grip bar along its top, and drag
the window over to the desired position relative to the other docked windows.
While dragging, a small box outline should appear that indicates the new position
that the window will take, when you release the mouse and end the drag. If you wish
to stack two windows, and use tabs to choose between them, drag the window to the
very center of the other window with which you wish to stack.
.PP
To undock a window, either click the dock/undock button in its top right corner, or
double-click on the window's grip bar. Double-clicking again, or clicking
on the dock/undock button, should return the window to its original position.
Otherwise, you can dock an undocked window by dragging its grip bar back to a
point within the general interface, just as if you were rearranging an already
docked window.
.PP
The file view window cannot be undocked or moved, but by moving other windows
around, it can itself be shifted about. 
.PP
While dragging a window, press the Escape key to cancel the operation. To reset
the docked windows to the default Gwenview layout, use the Reset option in the
Window menu.
.SS Mouse operations
Browsing a directory of images can be done several ways, including mouse
gestures. Hold down the left mouse button over an image, then click the right
button to go to the next image. Hold down the right button, then click the
left button to load the previous image.
.PP
Clicking the right mouse button on an image brings up a context menu.
.PP
Clicking the middle mouse button will toggle the auto zoom on/off.
.PP
Double-clicking on an image toggles Full Screen mode.
.PP
Holding down the left mouse button on an image allows you to
scroll the image. By default, you can also scroll up and down an image by
using the mouse wheel. However, this can be configured to browse the images
in the current directory instead.
.PP
The mouse wheel, used while holding down the Shift key, will zoom the image
in and out.
.PP
The mouse wheel, used while holding down the Control or Alt keys, will scroll the image horizontally.
.SS Keybindings
Gwenview comes with a range of keyboard shortcuts, all of which can be viewed and remapped by
selecting "Configure Shortcuts" in the Settings menu. Note that in the Files and Folders windows,
all the normal KDE shortcuts are functional, unless otherwise remapped.
.PP
A few of the most useful default bindings are:
.PP
  Ctrl-Shift-F    Toggles Full Screen mode.
  Escape          Stop, exit from Full Screen mode.

  Home            Displays the first image in the directory.
  End             Displays the last image in the directory.

  Space           Displays the next image in the directory.
  Backspace       Displays the previous image in the directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The Gwenview homepage can be found at \fIhttp://gwenview.sourceforge.net\fR.
.PP
A mailing list is also available at \fIhttp://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/gwenview-general\fR.
.SH BUGS
To report a bug, please visit \fIhttp://bugs.kde.org\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Gwenview was written by Aurelien Gateau <aurelien.gateau@free.fr>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Christopher Martin <chrsmrtn@freeshell.org> for Debian GNU/Linux, but may be used by others.
