<sect1 id="keybindings"> <title>Key bindings</title>

<para>&kappname; comes with a range of keyboard shortcuts, all of which can be
viewed and remapped by selecting
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Note that in the Files and Folders
windows, all the normal KDE shortcuts are functional, unless otherwise
remapped.</para>

<para>A few of the most useful default bindings are:</para>

<itemizedlist> 
<listitem><para><keycap>Space</keycap>: Displays the next image
in the directory.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><keycap>Backspace</keycap>:
Displays the previous image in the directory.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Up</keycap></keycombo>: 
Moves to the parent folder of the current folder.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>: 
Switches into Full Screen Mode.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycap>Escape</keycap>: Exits from Full Screen
mode.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>: 
Show or hide the menubar.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo>: 
Show or hide the Thumbnail bar.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycap>F11</keycap>
Show or hide the Sidebar.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycap>F6</keycap>
Make the Location bar editable so that you can directly type in a file path.
You can return to the standard Location Bar by pressing the arrow at the
right.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo>: 
Rotate the current image to the right.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>: 
Rotate the current image to the left.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>: 
Save any changes made to the image.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycap>Del</keycap>
Move the current image to the trash.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Del</keycap></keycombo>: 
Permenantly delete the image from the disk. Note that this operation is
irreversible and cannot be undone.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>: 
Print the current image.</para></listitem> 

<listitem><para><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>: 
Open an image using the standard file selection dialog.</para></listitem> 




</itemizedlist> </sect1> <!-- vim: set ft=xml: -->
